= District Enricher

Tool to enrich datasets containing location information with district
information.

The use case for this utility is to take historical data for City of
Austin 311 service requests and add a column with council district.

This utility was developed during ATX Hack for Change II, May 31 - Jun 1, 2014.
http://atxhackforchange.org/


== Usage

"district-enricher" is a command line utility.

It reads a CSV file on the local system. It assumes the first row of
the input is column titles. The dataset must contain latitude and
longitude columns. The column titles are not needed; "district-enricher"
will discover them automatically.

"district-enricher" copies each row of input to its output, adding one
column entitled "Calculated Council District" at the end of the row. The
district is calculated using the latitude/longitude information in
the row.

Example:

   <em>Grab the "Unified 311" dataset (big!!) from the City of Austin data portal</em>
   $ wget https://data.austintexas.gov/api/views/i26j-ai4z/rows.csv

   <em>Produce dataset enriched with council district info</em>
   $ district-enricher -v rows.csv rows-enriched.csv

You can test the utility with the "data/example-311_unified_data.csv"
test dataset included in the package. If the enrichment works, the
results should match "data/example-311_unified_data-enriched.csv"

Use the "-b" option for help.


== Implementation

This utility requires the following Ruby gems:

* rgeo - https://github.com/rgeo/rgeo
* rgeo-shapefile - https://github.com/rgeo/rgeo-shapefile

You can install the pre-requisites by running:

    $ bundle install

On my system (Fedora release 19), I had to install the following package
*before* building the Ruby Gems to satisfy dependencies:

* geos-devel


== Bugs

Please use the issue tracker at:

https://github.com/chip-rosenthal/district-enricher/issues


== Author

Chip Rosenthal
chip@unicom.com
